
PLACEHOLDER
Subject to revision.

FONTS

Novelette uses only utf-8 character encoding. Fonts are handled by the
fontspec package, which is loaded automatically. You must use Open Type fonts,
or in some cases TrueType fonts. Never use the older TeX Type 1 fonts,
or any other technology.

Do not use \setmainfont. Novelette uses its own \setfont command:
	\setfont{main}{Font Name}[features]
	\setfont{deco}{Font Name}[features]

The main font is set only once, in Preamble. It is used for main body text.
It is also used (with automatic modifications) for nearly all other text
in the document, no matter where or what size.
	Novelette automatically selects certain features. In many cases,
you do not need to specify any features yourself. If you do not know what
OpenType features are, no problem; just ignore the features, and let Novelette
select them for you.
	If you do not specify a main font, Then Novelette will select Libertinus
Serif. If you specify a main font but it is not installed where TeX can
find it, then Novelette will issue a warning and substitute Libertinus Serif.
If Libertinus Serif cannot be found, then Novelette will issue a more emphatic
warning and substitute Latin Modern Roman. If that also cannot be found, error.
	Libertinus Serif is a middle-of-the road font that looks good and has
many features. If it is installed, you may use \altfont{text} to grab
characters from Libertinus Serif. That allows you to use a main font that
is missing some rarely-used characters.
	You may use any OpenType font for which you have a suitable license.
Beware of the GNU Public License (GPL) unless it has a font exception clause.
	Novelette likes the look of the Clara and Cochineal fonts, freely available
by direct installation into TeX. And, do install Libertinus Serif. If your
TeX system uses tlmgr command-line:
	tlmgr install libertinus-fonts clara cochineal
But again, use whichever fonts you wish, as long as they are OpenType, and
you have a suitable license. This is your responsibility.

The deco font may be used only on "display" pages, which are stand-alone
and do not interact with main text. On a display page, you do not need to
align with the text line grid, so you can do things that otherwise would
be difficult. If you do not specify a deco font, the main font will be used.
	You might use the deco font for such things as the Title Page, where
a certain amount of dramatic style is expected. The style will depend upon
the genre of your book. An action thriller named "The Conspiracy Manifesto"
would use a different deco font than a romance named "The Teary Sniffler".
Look around: Many of the best fonts are not in the TeX catalog, due to the
TeX emphasis on math and academic works. Remember: OpenType. License.
