
PLACEHOLDER
Subject to revision.


FRONT MATTER

Front matter is the material that precedes the beginning of your story.
At an absolute minimum, it must include a recto title page, and verso
copyright page. The standard minimum is six pages. This is the norm for
many books. You can use more, but unless you are an experienced writer,
six pages should be all you need.

Front matter begins at page i (lowercase roman numeral). No page number is
printed. There is no header or footer.In the six-page method, the pages are:
	i.   Half-Title
	ii.  Blank
	iii. Title
	iv.  Copyright
	v.   Visual Separator (explained below)
	vi.  Blank


i. HALF-TITLE

The Half-Title page has nothing on it but the book title, usually at text size
larger than main text, but smaller than on the title page. Traditionally, this
was a dust cover, back in the days when printer and bookbinder were different
businesses, possibly in different locations.


ii. BLANK

In many commercial "instant best-seller" books, this page is not blank.
It may contain a list of books by the same author, a brief biography
(especially if it is a decased famous author), an advertisement for the
movie (you should be so lucky), or even an advertisement for something else.
	Even if you do have a list of books, the print service may refuse to
list them, unless the same service carries every book on the list. Ask.
	Long ago, when books were books, this page might contain elaborately
drawn line art. Strictly decorative. The best examples of this are expensive
collector's items, or in museums. If you have artistic expertise, you can
try it. Repeat: artistic expertise. But do not put anything (such as a map)
that is essential to the story.
	In your case, it is best to leave this page blank. Nothing to be ashamed
about. There are good books by famous authors, where this page is blank.


iii. TITLE PAGE

This page must contain the book title, and optional subtitle, and author name.
At its bottom, you may place a line of additional information.
	The title and author must exactly match whatever you entered in the
distribution database, when you signed up. If the database says that the
title is Quick & Dirty, then the printed title must be Quick & Dirty,
not Quick and Dirty. Some services will allow author initials, such as
P. Q. Burble, instead of Priscilla Quincy Buble. Ask.
	The practice regarding subtitles varies. Some service treat a subtitle
as a lengthened form of the title. Others ignore it. Ask.
	Do not put advertising, keywords, or description here.


iv. COPYRIGHT PAGE

A generic, minimal copyright page looks something like this:
	The Withens Chronicles
	A Potboiler Romance
	by Pseudo Nym
	Copyright ©2023 Real You. All Rights Reserved.
	ISBN 0-12345678901-2
	Published by the copyright holder, Yourcity Yournation.
	This is a work of fiction. All persons and events... etc.
	Library catalog information (if available).
Common practice is to vertically align the content, so that whitespace is
at the top, and the final printed line is at the bottom. If you place the
\vfill command before the title, that works. You mgith want to center all.
	In general, do not state that the book is printed on any particular kind
of paper, or in any particular location. You have no control over that.
	Most jurisdictions require an Impressum, stating the printer and place
where printed. In books I have published in the USA, that information is
automatially added at time of print, on the final verso page.
	Requirements of your own nation may differ. That is beyond the scope
of TeX or Novelette. 


v. VISUAL SEPARATOR

You do not want the legalese Copyright Page at left, when your romantic story
appears at right, do you? Of course not.
	Solution: A visual separator. In principle it could be blank, but that
is unexpected. Some possibilities:
	Dedication. Over-used. Nowadays, web sites do this better.
	Epigraph. Encouraged. The best of the best.
	Acknowledgements. If necessary, and not too long.
	Half-Title. Nothing comes to mind? Simply repeat the half-title page.
	Table of Contents. Only if your book is a collection of short stories.
An Epigraph is a short piece of prose or poetry, intended to attract the
reader's attention. It may set a tone for the book, or suggest how this book
compares to other books in terms of writing style or genre.
	Perhaps the most famous Epigraph in recent fiction is the "One Ring"
poem from Tolkien's Lord of the Rings books.
	Commercial books, by famous popular writers and published by major
publishers, sometimes have an Epigraph that quotes a recent book or
statement from another person. Do not do this. They have arrangements.
You do not.
	Pretentious Epigraphs often quote Shakespeare or the King James Bible,
because their words are free from copyright. If you are feeling pretentious,
that might be useful.
	You may have a fictitious Epigraph, created just for the purpose.
Consider this: "The most fun we ever had was the Saturday night brawls at
the pub." Now, that certainly sets a tone. The reader will have an
instant idea regarding the book. The brawls need not actually appear.


vi. BLANK PAGE

This blank appear at left, and the first page of your story appears at right.
Exceptions are so rare that they are not worth mentioning.


AND NOW... MAIN MATTER. PAGE 1.

This first page of your story is page 1, and numbering continues using
arabic numerals. In modern practice, anything appearing after the end of
your story continues the arabic page numbers.
	There is a difference beween "PDF page number" and "printed page number."
If you use the six-page front matter, printed page number 1 is actually
PDF page number 7.
	In books with lengthy front matter, the beginning of the story is
not necessarily page 1. It may be page 3. You do not need to know why.
 

WHERE TO PUT A MAP

Does your story need a map? Or maybe it is a murder mystery, with the plan
of the mansion?

If the image is necessary to understanding the story, then it is placed in
main matter, not front matter. If you want the reader to look
at the image before reading the text, then you can place the image as page 1
(main matter) followed by a blank page, then text beginning on page 3.
If the reader does not need to see the image immediately, then it can be
placed later in main matter.

These "rules of style" are not rigid.


WHERE TO PUT A PROLOGUE

If your story has a Prologue, it is part of main matter, because it is part
of the story.
