
PLACEHOLDER
Subject to change.

INTENT

This determines PDF/X-1a:2001 conformance (or not).
In Preamble:
	\intent{choice}
where the choice is one of: SWOP FOGRA39 JC200103 none
Case-sensitive. Default none.

Explanation:

When the intent is "none" (default), a good PDF is likely to be accepted by
most print-on-demand services. However, some services require that the
PDF contains internal metadata, declaring that it meets the rigorous
standards of PDF/X. Do not confuse PDF/X, which is used for printing,
with PDF/A, which is used for digital documents.

When you compile your document in draft|shade|align mode, the intent will
be automatically set to "none", regardless of your choice.

If there is an error (or some warnings) during compilation, and you continue
past the problem to create PDF, it will automatically have intent "none"
regardless of your setting.

In other words, an intent other than "none" is only honored in final mode,
and only when the PDF compiles correctly.

If your intent is SWOP|FOGRA39|JC200103 in final mode:
	Any images are inspected, to ensure that they are monochrome black/white
png at 1-bit per pixel; that they have an acceptable density (resolution),
and they do not contain private metadata (such as EXIF). This inspection
takes time.
	If the PDF passes inspection, its XMP metadata will have statements
declaring it to be PDF/X-1a:2001.
	Its metadata will contain "output intent" metadata, based on your choice.
This will actually be ignored by the printer, because it is only relevant
to color accuracy. Nevertheless, the intent must be stated. No *.icc color
profile will be attached.

Novelette uses its own methods for PDF/X, output intent, and metadata.
It does not load LaTeX packages that are used by other document classes.
The reason is that current TeX development is focused on PDF/A, rather
than PDF/X. The PDF/A code is massive, and partly experimental. No reason
to load the unnecessary code into Novelette.


Technical Explanation:
	A PDF file may contain many things that are potentially disruptive
to the workflow of commercial printing. Or, it may omit essential things.
PDF/X internally labels the file, declaring that it obeys these limitations.
	If your document has no images, Novelette produces PDF that almost
meets PDF/X format, except for the internal label. If your document has images,
they must also meet certain standards. Thanks to the power of LuaLaTeX,
it is possible to inspect images, without the need to call external software.
But if an image fails inspection, you will need to correct it externally.

