
PLACEHOLDER
Subject to change

LANGUAGE

Important: Other document classes use different methods for specifying
language. Disregard anything you read elsewhere!

When Novelette loads a language, it ONLY loads a hyphenation pattern.
There is no spelling or grammar check. There is no automatic styling
of time and date, or chapters, or anything else. Do it yourself!

Novelette uses this command in Preamble:
	\setlang{code}
Notice that it is NOT \language or \lang or \setlanguage.
If you do not use \setlang, the default language is english. See note 1.

There is a limited list of available language codes. You may set only one.
Here are your choices:
	english usenglishmax british (note 1)
	german ngerman swissgerman german-x-latest ngerman-x-latest (note 2)
	norwegian bokmal nynorsk (note 3)
	french (note 4)
    occitan spanish portuguese italian latin
	basque finnish danish icelandic swedish
	dutch (note 5)
	catalan (note 6)
	welsh (note 7)
Most languages use the same hyphenation, regardless of regional differences
in vocabulary or pronunciation. That is why there are no separate codes for
Australian English, Canadian French, etc.

No matter which language you use, print services require that title
and author be written using Latin characters (possibly with diacriticals).
This is so your book can be properly listed in the distribution database.
Some print services further limit title and author to Latin-1 characters.
That excludes curly quotes and curly apostophe, but Novelette will
automatically use the straight forms, in title and author.

NOTES:
	1. "english" is the default. It uses an out-of-date hyphenation pattern.
Better results will be obtained by "usenglishmax" or "british".
	2. "german" is 1901, "ngerman" is 1996. "swissgerman" is Swiss.
"german-x-latest" and "ngerman-x-latest" are recent updates to the 1901
and 1996 patterns.
	3. "norwegian" uses bokmal. "bokmal" and "nynorsk" are specific. 
	4. "french" does not load spacing patterns, just hyphenation. Add the
command \frenchspacing after \begin{document}, to increase the space between
sentences. But for increased punctuation space, you must type it yourself.
	5. The print service may forbid using digraphs IJ ij in title or author.
You may type the two separate letters.
	6. Single-character Ldot and ldot should not be used in title or author.
Actually, you should not use them anywhere. Use periodcentered (middot).
	7. The print service may forbid using circumflex over Y y in title
or author. It may forbid any diacritical over W w.

You cannot load the `lipsum' package. If you need some text for
testing layout, the built-in \fillertext command may be used
in the document body. You may not use \fillertext in final mode.
The text is in American English.

No matter which language you choose, you may write in any language.
The only restrictions are that all text must be left-to-right, must
not contain stacked or combined diacritical marks, and must not contain
context-dependent ligatures or substitutions. These are satisfied by the
various Western European (and some other) languages.
	If you select one language, then write in another language, the second
language will by hyphenated according to the rules of the setting. That is
not necessarily a problem, unless you have extensive passages in the
second language.
