
PLACEHOLDER
Subject to revision.


TITLE AND AUTHOR

Novelette is for the purpose of print-on-demand (P.O.D.) fiction, written in a
Western European language. The reason for this limitation has to do with the
nature of P.O.D. distribution databases. Although other nations may have
their own P.O.D. requirements, those are beyond the knowledge of the
Novelette developer.

In general, the book title and author must be written in the Latin-1
character set. Probably that includes subtitle, if the book has one.
Latin-1 characters do not include such things as curly quotes, dashes,
or curly apostrophe. Avoid any kind of quotation marks. You may use a
hyphen instead of a dash. You may use the straight single quote (apostrophe)
For a title such as L'Amour or an author such as O'Toole. It will appear
in the invisible metadata as straight, but appear in visible print as curly.

Remember that TeX assigns special meaning to certain characters. If you use
them, they must be backslashed. So if the title of your book is
Murder #9, it must be written as Murder \#9. The 8% Mystery become
The 8\% Mystery. Likewise for $ & @ and other special characters.

Even though you may be able to use some symbols (such as #), it might be
better to spell it, and spell numerals. Thus, Murder Number Nine.
Practice varies. For example there is a book titled The 7% Solution
(fiction genre of Sherlock Holmes) and another book titled
The 7 Per-Cent Solution (nonfiction investment strategy).

In any case, regardless of Latin-1 or TeX special characters, do not use
a title that cannot easily be pronounced. Even if the distributor allows
you to use The {Silly} Conspiracy as title, how would you say that?

The author name is the way you say it: Jane Smith, NOT Smith, Jane.

Unless your jurisdiction forbids it, you may use a pseudonym as author.
The developer of Novelette has a name that does not sound right, for the
genre he writes. So he uses a pseudonym that sounds right. If your real name
is Alice Hurl, you wouldn't write a cookbook with your real name, would you?
Something such as Vanessa Truffle might be better.

If you do use a pseudonym, it is best to use your real name as copyright
holder.

 
